Shift Scheduling Q1:

A simple case where two shifts would be algorithmically equivalent but have significant impacts on the worker would be the case when two shifts,
like Mon 8am-12pm and Mon 4pm-8pm, leaving a three hour window to eat, perhaps run errands, etc... and the shift Mon 8am-4pm where the worker would
have to work through lunch and other meals, reducing the quality of work. Younger workers with no families may be inclined to work till later and take
night shifts if they were offered. Older workers with families hay have family responsabiliies such as picking their children from school or cooking them
dinner. To mitigate the costs of a custom shift schedule, the worker would likely have to take on more time to afford alternatives like a nanny or extended
daycare for their children.



Shift Scheduling Q2:

It's critical to consider that humans are not automated machines working at peak efficiency 24/7. Optimizing for profit can result in worker burnout,
reducing efficiency gains, and hurting a company's bottom line. Furthermore, one could also make the argument that grueling schedules with no bathroom
breaks results in bad press for the company as it demonstrates their priorities do not lie with their workers and instead with their bottom line. This was
the case of Amazon several years back. Since then, businessman and consultant John Elkington devised the concept of the Triple Bottom Line, which prioritizes
worker conditions by making an organizations' stakeholders (including its employees) just as important as profits. This notion, if implemented properly,
can promote employee satisfaction through meaningful work that imbues purpose in its employees.

Note: I took two years of Business Management in highschool where the concept of employee motivation was a central unit. I would
love to expand more on the psycological factors that can promote employee satisfaction such as
Maslow's Higherarchy of Needs and whatnot but will not to keep this concise.



Shift Scheduling Q3:

The most immediate thing that comes to mind is the notion of worker preference in shift scheduling. Similar to how students in CS 106B are given preference to
what time their section should be, the workers can be asked a series of questions where they rank schedules. In turn, the algorithm can factor in
what the employees would prefer beyond just profits. Broadly, I believe algorithms like these should be programmed to promote meritocracy and reward
the hardest working employees while making opportunities equitable for the entire employee pool. In this way, workers can select shifts that either have
longer hours or require more skilled labor and resultantly get paid a higher wage.



Shift Scheduling Q4:

Hey Harvey (Suits reference),

I'm writing to with concerns regarding the optimization algorithm that Pearson Hardman recently incorporated to maximize shift schedules. While optimizing for efficiency
and profit is important, I believe there are significant ethical and practical issues that we need to address before this system becomes the new standard.

The primary issue arrises from the unpredictability of worker schedules. Part-time workers often have other responsabiliies such as being college students or
taking care of family members. This makes our workers' schedules unsustainable in the long run as they cannot plan ahead for when they will need to work.

Similarly, these algorithms and their consequent effect on worker conditions reflect badly on our company's brand--a phenomenon that has led consumers to
boycot certain products or services. At a basic human level, I believe it is in the company's interest to have motivated and content workers who find
joy and fulfillment from their jobs. This ultimately results in higher efficiency gains since workers make a concerted effort to provide better than
adequate services.

The best part about this all is that these issues can be easily mitigated. The most immediate change that can be made is to provide workers with certain time
slots where they may or may not be scheduled a shift but could very well be. We can then add another component to the algorithm that generates these time slots.
I know this sounds a bit redundant, but this could drastically help workers plan their weeks consistantly regardless of what the algorithm dictates as their
shifts for the week. Similarly, we can also implement a ranking form where employees list their shift schedule preference based on their lives, which the algorithm can
then incorporate into its shift generation process.

Finally, we must realize that an algorithm will rarely acommodate everyone's needs; people will always fall within the cracks of a preestablished deterministic
system. Hence, we should also establish an human-led appeals system where workers can make a case for why their schedule should be changed. This adds
humanity to the process and prioritizes workers' needs.

Best regards,
Mark


